[Music]
in utah in the middle of the desert
there are striped ponds that seem to be
something from another world
[Applause]
the color gets even more dramatic
contrasting with the red moab desert
the ponds have those stripes because of
the evaporation
the more water there is the more vibrant
the blue shades appear
the electric blue color is artificial
though
people add cobalt blue dye so the water
absorbs more sunlight and evaporates
faster
as the water disappears the crystals of
salt and potassium are left behind
which are gathered later for chemical
production you
don't want to swim in there another
unusual lake that has its looks thanks
to evaporation
is spotted lake in canada in winter and
spring
it looks just like a regular lake but in
summer
when the sun gets scorching hot some
water evaporates
but small pools of minerals are left
behind
the polka dot spots are usually green
yellow and bluish
there are no two similar pools they all
have different colors and sizes
don't get too close here this place is
quite sensitive
now if perfection is something you're
after head to northern ireland
the place called the giants causeway has
no
extraordinary waters but the surrounding
stones and columns
look so smooth and impeccable that it's
kind of hard to believe
they were created by nature all those
cracks were formed thanks to a volcanic
eruption
but the legend has it the site was made
by a mythical giant named
finn mccool he must have been really
cool
in turkey there's a spectacular sight
called
pamukkale which means cotton castle in
english
again legend has it that giants had
something to do with it
this time they left some cotton there to
dry and it later turned into those
stunning formations
scientists kind of disagree with it and
claim that it's all about minerals left
by the thermal waters
it's up to you who to believe but
there's one undoubtable thing
this place with turquoise thermal water
has no lookalike in the world
if you ever pop in this place don't miss
a chance to take a look at ancient roman
ruins left there
back in 1802 humanity spotted something
they
never saw before the pink water
nope it wasn't some fancy strawberry
lemonade or something
it was an actual source of flamingo pink
water
meet lake hillier located in western
australia
it's not hard to guess that it attracts
people because of its unique color
it never changes and stays pink
throughout the year
no giant spotted adding pink dye there
so this time
it's all about algae bacteria and high
salinity
it's totally safe to swim there but
nobody can do that
regular tourists just can't visit it
turns out lake hillier isn't the only
pink water source out there
in senegal there's lake retva which
looks almost exactly the same
it looks like an extra large milkshake
for the same reasons
high salinity and algae that loves salt
these algae produce red pigments to help
absorb sunlight
so the lake color gets even more intense
in the dry season
the notorious thor as well isn't as
dangerous as they say
but it looks a bit scary at high tide
the water fills it from underneath
bubbling and bursting up then this
vigorous spray of water goes back
into that hole so it seems endless
one more place that depends on tides is
marseille michelle in normandy france
the magnificent castle is surrounded by
water
but not permanently choose the time
wisely
it all depends on the moon the highest
tide can be seen
36 to 48 hours after a full moon
chances are if you come there at the
wrong time you'll see nothing but a
couple of puddles
the butter gaika crater in siberia looks
like a doorway to the neither
it's about a half mile long and nearly
300 feet deep
and it never stops growing the deeper it
gets
the more layers it has they show what
our planet looked like thousands of
years ago
as the slumps reveal they used to be
climates the crater appeared back in the
60s
and it all started because of rapid
deforestation
trees no longer cast shades on the
ground and it got hotter
the permafrost melted the soil cracked
and the crater appeared
in the middle of the atacama desert
chile you can spot a super weird thing
the rocks rise out of the sand right in
the shape of a hand
no giant here again just a sculptor
artist who made it
some desert rocks can even walk walking
rocks
also known as sailing rocks can move on
their own
and leave long tracks across one of the
valleys in california
scientists even installed gps navigators
on some of them
and they showed those rocks can move
pretty fast
many researchers believe it's all about
temperatures
at night the desert almost freezes over
and the sheets of ice formed underneath
melt during the day so the rocks
literally slide
gippsland lakes australia can glow at
night
bacteria get agitated in the water when
the algae bloom
and their movements give that
bioluminescent effect
still the beauty of red algae bloom is
extremely misleading
red algae contain high levels of ammonia
so
think twice before diving in it's safer
to enjoy the scenery on the shore
just a tip you should probably do that
with your nose closed
the decaying algae doesn't smell like
roses
pew water often glows because of
bioluminescent jellyfish and so do caves
in new zealand there are glowing worms
that emit greenish blue luminescent
light
you can see these guys only in total
darkness these worms are carnivores
and the main reason why they glow is to
attract prey
so beware they also make webs
just like spiders to see them head to
the waitomo glowworm caves
there are even guided tours
chocolate hills yummy the name is
explained by colors
those hills in the philippines have a
range of brown and green colors
have you seen a green chocolate though
this spot has such a sweet nickname
because the foliage gets brownish in the
dry season
the hill shape is so regular that it's
often mistaken for being artificial
still these are just some uplifted coral
deposits
appeared because of rainwater
just imagine a beach of ketchup spilled
for miles and miles
and a never-ending portion of french
fries
okay it's just a dream but a ketchup-red
beach
exists in real life in china it's called
punjin
and it's at least 18 miles long usually
either giants or algae are responsible
for such phenomena
this time these are algae they turn red
in fall
and make this beach one of the most
colorful in the world
good news it's open to the public but
only a small
section we've seen a red beach
off to red waters antarctica isn't only
white
it can be red too in the taylor glacier
there's a crimson waterfall coming from
a super salty lake
the water is rich in iron which forms
rust when it reacts with oxygen
the water stays liquid even at sub-zero
temperatures because of the high
salinity
glass beach in california is another
beach that looks so
incredible that many people don't
believe it's not made by humans
well they're partly right the glittering
colorful glass stones
used to be bottles dumped into the ocean
the waves took these bottles
broke them down polished them to
perfection and
voila the beach is ready
another thing created by accident is fly
geyser in blackrock desert nevada
an energy company was drilling the soil
in search of geothermal water
and boom today it's a scalding fountain
of green and red water
rising up to five feet high well let's
play a guessing game
why is the water colored it was a random
giant walking around who added some dye
in there
or it's the thermophilic algae right
it's all about the algae again
in western venezuela locals living close
to the ketatumba river aren't afraid of
lightning
because they see it almost every single
night within the clouds
it starts at around 7pm and doesn't stop
until dawn
the everlasting catatombo lightning once
stopped for a few months
from january to march 2010 it was
probably due to drought
no magic algae in this river guys many
believe
it's just because of cold and warm air
currents
meeting around the area now this island
may not have incredible natural
phenomenon colorful algae or even giants
but it has an enormous population of
cats
which makes it literally the best place
in the world if you like cats
cat island in japan has quite a plain
story
back in time people would go there in
search of silkworms
mice feed on those worms so cats were a
must there
if tourists come there they can stay in
cat-shaped cabins
clever naturally no dogs are allowed
there
oh and if you want to make a donation
you can always
feed the kitty